---
layout:     post
title:      let newYear = currentYear + 1
date:       2019-01-13
summary:    "#newYearNewBlog"
categories: personal
---


Blogging has been a goal of mine for a while, but I've never actually taken the leap and started writing. Since it's (sort of) the start of a new year, I figure now is as good a time as any to start! I want to mostly write about Swift or iOS-related topics, but writing down some of my other goals for this year seemed like a good way to ease into this whole writing thing. So here we go... Here are my goals for 2019.

## 🏠 Personal Goals:

### Take care of my body and mind

To me, this means more than "I'm going to exercise more." Sure I want to get back into physical shape, but my _real_ focus is on mental health. I've dabbled in meditation, but want to make it a priority this year. I also want to practice more yoga. When we had classes once a week in the office, it made a huge difference in the way I felt. It's a great bridge between mental and physical health, and I'd highly recommend it. If you haven't tried it, you should give it a shot. The last piece of this goal is sleep. I'm naturally a night owl, so if I've got a deadline, it's easy to lose track of time and realize that it's 2 or 3am. I want to make an effort to go to sleep earlier, and make sure sleep is _not_ the first thing I sacrifice when I have a deadline or some other commitment.


### Read more

I already read quite a bit, but I want to keep that up. For me reading is an low-risk way to learn about new things, stimulate creativity, and enhance emotional intelligence. Last year, I read in bursts. I'd read two books in as many weeks, then let a month go by before I picked up the next book on my shelf. This year I'd like to be more consistent. I also want to focus on reading more works from diverse authors. I'll still read both fiction and nonfiction, but more of those books will be written by women and/or people of color to help me experience diverse perspectives view and challenge my view of the world.


### Start to write

The into pretty much covers this one. Hooray for blogging! 🎉


### Take more photos

On weekends, I used to bike around DC taking pictures of art, life in the city, and architecture. Work was busy enough last year that I lost a bit of my work/life balance, and photography was one of the first things to go. I miss it, so this year I'm going to start taking pictures on the weekends again. Maybe I'll find a way to incorporate them here.


### Use my phone more intentionally

I've gotten into the bad habit of reaching for my phone the first second I'm not occupied. I reach for Twitter before I even get out of bed, and the minute I'm idle I start scrolling through Instagram. I'd like to make sure that when I reach for my phone that it's for a reason rather than as a reaction. I think this aligns nicely with my goal related to mental health, mindfulness. In short, I want to be more present.


## 👨‍💻 Professional/Technical Goals:

### Learn more about accessibility

I've spent a few years building apps, but I've never really taken the time to dive deep into Apple's accessibility APIs. Part of building a great product is making sure that _everyone_ can use it, so I want to get more familiar with Apple's guidelines on accessibility and make sure as I'm building new products or features this year, that any of our users have the ability to use them.


### Learn more about localization and internationalization

Much like the goal above, I've never spent time localizing or internationalizing a product. For those who are curious how localization and internationalization are different, W3 has a good definition [here](https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-i18n). This year we're placing more emphasis than normal on on "building for scale" at work, and part of that is building products that can serve audiences outside the US. I'm really excited to learn about and apply these aspects of iOS development that a bit different from building screens and wiring up buttons. These are the things that help separate a product from its competition.


### _Really_ learn one new technology

LiveSafe is small, so I get to dabble with a lot of different technologies. Scala, Typescript, and Kotlin to name a few. This year I'd like to pick at least one technology that I'm only "familiar" with or have wanted to learn, and do a deeper dive into that technology. This could even be a particular platform or framework that I've been interested in using. Some of my current candidates are RXSwift, a server-side Swift framework, Kotlin, or Angular. I think it'd be _really_ interesting to learn more about web or API development.


### Empower others

Last but certainly not least, I want to find ways to help other engineers be successful. Sharing knowledge through this blog will hopefully be one way to do that, but I'd like to find other ways such as speaking about or teaching others iOS/Swift. 

Speaking specifically about my day-to-day role at LiveSafe, I want to make sure that I'm enabling the mobile team to be successful. I want to make sure I'm sharing the right information, and empowering team members to make decisions and take chances (while understanding the risk in those chances). I want to make sure that the tools and processes we're using actually help the get things done instead of slowing productivity or getting in the way. If we're not doing the right things, I want to find or build the tools that will improve quality of life for the mobile engineering team.



## Wrapping up...

So now that I've written these things on the internet, I guess I _have_ to follow through--that's the idea at least.

I'd love to hear your reading recommendations or your goals for the year! I'm on twitter at [@nickffox](https://www.twitter.com/nickffox)!